✅ How does Azure Resource Manager work in real-time projects?
 ✅ What is the role of ARM templates in Azure?
 ✅ Difference between ARM templates and Terraform?
 ✅ How do you deploy infrastructure using ARM templates?
 ✅ How do you manage multiple environments using ARM?
 ✅ How do you secure Azure resources using ARM?
 ✅ How do you handle parameters and variables in ARM templates?
 ✅ What are nested templates in Azure Resource Manager?
 ✅ How do you implement reusable ARM templates?
 ✅ How do you troubleshoot ARM deployment failures?
 ✅ How do you integrate ARM with CI/CD pipelines?
 ✅ How do you manage dependencies between Azure resources?
 ✅ How do you use ARM templates with Azure DevOps?
 ✅ How do you automate infrastructure provisioning in Azure?
 ✅ How do you manage secrets securely in ARM templates?
 ✅ How do you implement networking using ARM templates?
 ✅ How do you monitor Azure infrastructure deployments?
 ✅ What are common ARM production issues and fixes?
 ✅ How do you optimize ARM templates for large projects?
 ✅ What are best practices for Azure Resource Manager in production?

az login – Login to Azure account
🔹 az account show – Show current Azure account
🔹 az group create – Create a resource group
🔹 az vm create – Create Azure virtual machine
🔹 az vm start – Start Azure VM
🔹 az vm stop – Stop Azure VM
🔹 az aks create – Create AKS cluster
🔹 az aks get-credentials – Connect to AKS cluster
🔹 kubectl get pods – List Kubernetes pods
🔹 kubectl get nodes – Show cluster nodes
🔹 kubectl apply -f file.yaml – Deploy Kubernetes resources
🔹 kubectl describe pod <pod-name> – Show pod details
🔹 kubectl logs <pod-name> – View pod logs
🔹 docker build -t image-name . – Build Docker image
🔹 docker ps – List running containers
🔹 terraform init – Initialize Terraform
🔹 terraform plan – Preview infrastructure changes
🔹 terraform apply – Create infrastructure
🔹 az acr login – Login to Azure Container Registry
🔹 helm install – Deploy applications using Helm

What is Microsoft Azure?  
🔹 What is cloud computing in Azure?  
🔹 What is Azure region?  
🔹 What is availability zone in Azure?  
🔹 What is Azure Resource Group?  
🔹 What is Azure Virtual Network (VNet)?  
🔹 What is subnet in Azure?  
🔹 What is NSG (Network Security Group)?  
🔹 What is Azure Load Balancer?  
🔹 What is Azure Application Gateway?  

🔹 What is Azure VM?  
🔹 What is Azure Scale Set?  
🔹 What is Azure App Service?  
🔹 What is Azure Storage Account?  
🔹 What is Blob Storage?  
🔹 What is Azure Disk Storage?  
🔹 What is Azure File Share?  
🔹 What is Azure SQL Database?  
🔹 What is Cosmos DB?  
🔹 What is Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)?  

🔹 What is Azure Container Registry (ACR)?  
🔹 What is Azure DevOps?  
🔹 What is Azure Pipeline?  
🔹 What is Azure Monitor?  
🔹 What is Log Analytics Workspace?  
🔹 What is Azure Active Directory (Azure AD)?  
🔹 What is Managed Identity?  
🔹 What is Azure Key Vault?  
🔹 What is RBAC in Azure?  
🔹 What is Azure Policy?  

🔹 What is Azure Functions?  
🔹 What is serverless computing in Azure?  
🔹 What is Azure Traffic Manager?  
🔹 What is Azure Front Door?  
🔹 What is Azure Bastion?  
🔹 What is Azure Backup?  
🔹 What is Site Recovery in Azure?  
🔹 What is Infrastructure as Code in Azure?  
🔹 What is Terraform integration with Azure?  
🔹 What is importance of Azure in DevOps? 
