𝐃𝐞𝐯𝐎𝐩𝐬 𝐅𝐮𝐧𝐝𝐚𝐦𝐞𝐧𝐭𝐚𝐥𝐬 𝐘𝐨𝐮 𝐌𝐮𝐬𝐭 𝐎𝐰𝐧
1. How do you reduce AWS costs without compromising performance?
2.Have you ever deployed a Docker container on AWS Lambda?If yes briefly explain?
3.Explain the difference between service mesh (Istio/Linkerd) and an ingress controller?
4.Write a CI/CD pipeline for a Java application deploying to Kubernetes for Dev and Prod environments.
5. Explain horizontal vs vertical scaling in real infra scenarios?
6.What kind of security scans you will do on what applications?
7.Have you received any vulnerability scans when you are running security scans like what are the ones you have experienced in your day-to-day activities?
8.Difference between Blue-Green and Canary deployments - when do you use each?
9.What kind of pipelines you are using while setting up Jenkins like can you give an example of any pipeline you have set up?
10.What is TF state file in terraform?
11.What is the infrastructure size you are hosting like how many supports or containers you are managing infra size?
12.Terraform state got corrupted during backend migration. What is your recovery strategy?
1. can you explain VPC architecture?
2. Explain NACL and SG diffrence between them
3. Can you explain the CICD in your organization in your role?
4. can you explain the step-by-step process, like the cardinal steps you have taken to create the cluster?
5. when Pods are in Pending stage, how will you troubleshoot?
6. What is image pull back of?
7. Can you heard about the distroless images?
8. explain your project architecture in the current project?
9. Have you used any other like a tools for secret management?
10. What is the difference between AWS Secret Management and Parameter Store?
11. what are the challenges you are faced in your current project or previous projects?
12. suppose in an application hosted in a ec2 instance through elastic load balancer, you cannot access it, so what are the steps you
13. Explain Policies in Route53
14. Have you got any deployment strategies?
15. What are the differences between Canary and Blue/Green deployment?
16. How do you implement lambda functions?
17. Have you worked on cost optimization?
18. explain Terraform life cycle?
19. explain auto-scaling?
🐳 Docker
 1. Main Docker Network Types
 2. What is the use of Dockerfile?
 3. Why do we use Dockerfile?
 4. Dockerfile Instructions
1. Can you brief your self and your project and responsibilities?
2. How do you migrate a git based repo from one of its kind to another git based repo(like GitHub to GitLab) along with its commit history? what are the steps you follow?
3. Application on AWS EC2 behind the loadbalancer suddenly unavailable, how do you troubleshoot
4. AWS billing increased suddenly, how do you identify the costs
5. A developer asking Ec2 instance for his local deployment, how you will achieve and what type of instance you create and give it to them.
6. In kubernetes a pod is going to crashloopbackoff, how do you troubleshoot.
7. Kubernetes deployment done successfully but unable to access the application externally, how do you troubleshoot.
8. When kubernetes node fails what will happen.
9. In pod configuration what we should do from Production perspective
10. What is Git and why we are using it and what is branching strategy
11. How do you write in yaml to create a ci/cd pipeline from scratch to test and deploy from Dev to UAT
12. what is maven and explain about repositories
13. I have a senerio to deploy an application on 100 servers using Ansible, how do you perform it.
14. Docker containers stopped suddenly after starting, how do you troubleshoot
15. Jenkins pipeline deployment failed in production but working in Dev, how do you troubleshoot and fix the issues.
16. What is argocd and why we are using it
17. what is Gitops
⸻

⚙️ Terraform
 5. How do you execute a script even if the resource is not created?
 6. What is Terraform State File? Why is it used?
 7. What are terraform block and required_providers?
 8. What is remote-exec in Terraform?
 9. What is null_resource in Terraform?

⸻

☸️ Kubernetes
 10. Worker Node keeps restarting – how to resolve?
 11. Which Kubernetes resource is used to store tokens, secrets, and passwords?
 12. Readiness Probe in Kubernetes?
 13. Liveness Probe vs Readiness Probe
 14. Storage resources in a Pod
 15. ReplicaSet manifest
 16. NodePort range
 17. ClusterIP vs NodePort
 18. Default namespaces in Kubernetes

⸻

🔐 Networking & Security
 19. On what basis do we use SSL termination?
 20. What is SSL termination?

⸻

☁️ AWS
 21. Difference between Application Load Balancer and Network Load Balancer
 22. What is Amazon Route 53?
 23. Is Elastic IP single per AWS account?
 24. What are Security Groups?
 25. What is NACL?
 26. What is User Data in EC2?
******EC2 INTERVIEW QUESTIONS******

1. How do you troubleshoot high CPU usage in an EC2 instance?
 2. How do you recover a stopped EC2 instance that won’t start? 
3. How do you resize an EC2 instance without downtime? 
4. How do you attach and mount a new EBS volume to an EC2 instance? 
5. How do you create a custom AMI from an EC2 instance? 
6. How do you recover deleted data from an EC2 instance? 
7. How do you handle EC2 key pair loss? 
8. How do you connect to EC2 through a Bastion host? 
9. How do you troubleshoot slow SSH connections to EC2? 
10. How do you schedule EC2 instances to stop/start automatically? 
11. How do you migrate an EC2 instance between subnets or AZs? 
12. How do you use user data to install software automatically? 
13. How do you check system logs for EC2 boot errors? 
14. How do you increase EC2 root volume size? 
15. How do you enable detailed monitoring for EC2 instances? 
16. How do you troubleshoot failed EC2 instance status checks? 
17. How do you share an AMI with another AWS account? 
18. How do you attach multiple network interfaces to an EC2 instance? 
19. How do you recover corrupted EBS volumes from snapshots? 
20. How do you monitor EC2 disk I/O performance?
⸻

💡 Tip:
Most questions were fundamental but scenario-based follow-ups were deep. Make sure your basics are strong + you can explain real-time use cases.

⸻
1. What’s the real difference between CPU bottleneck vs I/O bottleneck, and how do you identify each?
2. Why do systems fail even when CPU and memory look fine?
3. What actually happens when a Kubernetes Pod restarts?
4. Difference between readiness and liveness probes, and how each can break production.
5. What problem does infrastructure as code solve, and when can it become dangerous?
6. How does Terraform state work, and what happens when it drifts?
7. What’s the difference between horizontal and vertical scaling, and when should you avoid autoscaling?
8. Why do deployments succeed but users still see errors?
9. How do you decide between rollback vs hotfix during an incident?
10. What’s the difference between metrics, logs, and traces, and when do you start with each?
🔹 AWS
Explain how you would design a highly available EC2 architecture across multiple AZs for a web application.
How would you migrate a running EC2 instance to another region with minimal downtime?
If your EC2 instance is not reachable via SSH, what troubleshooting steps would you perform?
Your web application experiences unpredictable traffic spikes. How would you configure auto scaling policies to handle this while optimizing costs?
Explain a scenario where scheduled scaling is more appropriate than dynamic scaling.
Your S3 bucket storing critical backups becomes unavailable. How would you recover?
You want to audit all IAM users and roles for compliance. How would you do this?
Your organization needs to grant cross-account access to a partner. How would you implement it?
How would you secure S3 data in transit and at rest for compliance?
How would you connect an on-premises network securely to your VPC?
How would you deploy Lambda functions across multiple environments securely?

🔹 Docker
How do you handle multi-cloud Docker deployments with compliance restrictions?
You need live-patching of Docker host kernel without downtime. How do you achieve it?
How do you troubleshoot container DNS resolution failures?
How do you enforce policy-as-code for Docker security?

🔹 Kubernetes (K8s)
Your Ingress controller crashes repeatedly under heavy load. How do you stabilize it?
An entire Kubernetes region goes down. How do you failover workloads?
All pods in one namespace suddenly fail readiness checks. What’s your step to troubleshoot?
Your cluster is hit by a massive traffic surge, and HPA cannot scale pods fast enough. How do you handle it?
A node hosting critical workloads crashes permanently. How do you ensure workloads recover automatically?
A Pod is stuck in ImagePullBackOff. How do you troubleshoot?

🔹 Terraform
Your Terraform apply succeeded, but some resources are not behaving as expected. How do you debug?
How do you run Terraform safely in CI/CD pipelines?
Your Terraform state file is getting too large. How do you manage it?
A team needs to provision infra in 10 AWS regions simultaneously. How do you structure it?
You want faster Terraform runs in large projects. What optimizations would you apply?
A production deployment failed halfway, leaving some resources created and others not. How do you recover?

🔹 Prometheus & Grafana
How do you implement Kubernetes cluster-level monitoring using Prometheus?
How can you integrate Prometheus with Alertmanager and Slack for real-time notifications?
1.  Roles and responsibilities
2. Explain about  your current project
3. Explain the concept of pipeline as a code in Jenkins
4. How you will manually trigger the Jenkins job in the manual checking is required for developer
5. What are agents and runners
6. How you will deploy the new Jenkins deployment by zero down time
7. Explain the concept of how will create multi stage jobs in Jenkins
8. Docker images vs docker container
9. Kubernetes deployment vs stateful sets
10. Pod struck in crash loopback error how will you troubleshoot
11. One job working fine in dev environment and not working in production how will you troubleshoot
12. One stage is failed in Jenkins pipeline due to credentials issue how you will make it work
13. One pod not reachable to other pod in Kubernetes
14. Explain the deployment strategy used in your organisation
15. How you will create monitoring dashboard for your organisation
16. Explain logs, metrics and traces
17. Write a script to alert cpu utilisation is 80%
18. How you will alert cpu utilisation is 80% in prometues
19. Graphana dashboard is responding slow , how will you troubleshoot
20. Explain the branching strategy in your organisation
21. How do you ensure zero-downtime deployments?
22. what is the difference between liveness and readiness probes
🔹 Terraform

What is a Terraform state file and why is it important?
How does Terraform state locking work?
What is the difference between local and remote backend?
How do you import an existing resource into Terraform?
What happens if the Terraform state file is deleted?
What is a Terraform module?
How do you call a local module?
What is the purpose of terraform taint or -replace?
How does Terraform handle dependencies between resources?
What are workspaces in Terraform?

AWS
What is Assume Role and how does it work?
What is AWS STS?
Difference between IAM policy and Trust policy?
How does cross-account access work in AWS?
What is a Service Control Policy (SCP)?
What happens if SCP denies but IAM allows?
How do you securely copy S3 data between two AWS accounts?
How does IAM role attached to EC2 work?
Difference between public subnet vs private subnet?
what is EBS, S3, EFS?

🔹 Docker
Write a Dockerfile for a simple web application.
Difference between CMD and ENTRYPOINT?
What is the difference between COPY and ADD?
How do you reduce Docker image size?
What are Docker layers?
how to get running container ip address?

🔹 Scenario-Based
How do you design highly available infrastructure in AWS?
How do you handle secret management securely?
What are best practices for production Terraform usage?
How do you troubleshoot a server that is not reachable?
How do you design cross-account governance in AWS?
Day-to-Day & Cloud Basics
1. Explain your day-to-day activities as a DevOps/SRE engineer.
2. What is cloud migration?
3. What is a VPC?
4. What is a subnet and a NAT Gateway?
5. If the private IP you were using is no longer available, what steps will you take?
6. Explain the different types of block storage.
7. What is Amazon S3?
8. What are S3 storage classes, and which one have you used?
9. What will you do if a file upload fails?
10. Where is cache used in AWS?
11. What is the difference between NLB & ALB

Git, Versioning & Automation
12. Which branching strategy have you worked with in your project?
13. Write a command to create a branch in Git.
14. Why is versioning important?
15. What automation tools have you used?

Jenkins & CI/CD
16. What are the components of Jenkins?
17. What are agents in Jenkins?
18. How do you secure your CI/CD pipeline?
19. Explain the stages in a CI/CD pipeline.
20. Write the stages of a typical CI/CD pipeline.
21. What is the difference between on and job in a YAML pipeline?

Terraform
22. What are data blocks in Terraform?
23. What are Terraform modules?
24. How do you secure your Terraform code?
25. What is a UAT environment in Terraform?

Docker
26. Write a simple Dockerfile.
27. What is the difference between CMD and ENTRYPOINT?

Kubernetes
28. Explain Kubernetes architecture.
29. How did you deploy an application on Kubernetes?
30. Write basic Kubernetes commands.
31. How do you secure a Kubernetes application?
32. What is HPA (Horizontal Pod Autoscaling)?
33. What are Config Maps and Secrets?
34. What is a Persistent Volume?
35. What steps do you follow if a pod fails?
36. Why do pod restarts?
37. Why do we perform rollbacks?
38. What will you do if a CrashLoopBackOff occurs?
39. Through which Kubernetes service did you expose the application?

Monitoring & SRE
40. What monitoring tools have you used?
41. How do metrics get into Prometheus?
42. How did you identify issues from an SRE perspective?
43. Explain what you have worked on in AWS CloudWatch.

Python Scripting
44. What is the difference between a list and a tuple in Python?
45. Create a list and replace the value at the second position with another value.
46. Write a Python function that prints: “Hello, please enter your name”.
47. Write a Python script to notify when a server goes down.
48. Write a Python script to list the first 10 S3 buckets in AWS.

Bash & Linux
49. Write a simple Bash script you have used in your project.
50. What is the sed command used for?

1. Tell me about your roles and responsibilities (DevOps)

Strong answer:

In my DevOps role, I was responsible for automating infrastructure, CI/CD pipelines, and ensuring reliable application delivery. I worked on provisioning AWS infrastructure using Terraform, managing Kubernetes workloads, setting up monitoring and logging, and handling deployments with minimal downtime. I also collaborated with developers to containerize applications, troubleshoot production issues, and improve system reliability and security.

What interviewers actually listen for:

Automation (Terraform, CI/CD)

Cloud + Kubernetes

Ownership during failures

❌ Weak answer: “I worked on AWS, Docker, Kubernetes”
That tells them nothing.

2. How can you tell a subnet is public or private?

Exact answer:
A subnet is public if:

Its route table has a route 0.0.0.0/0 → Internet Gateway (IGW)

A subnet is private if:

It does NOT route traffic directly to IGW

Usually routes 0.0.0.0/0 → NAT Gateway

How to check practically:

AWS Console → VPC → Subnets → Route Table


❗ Public/private is NOT decided by subnet name.
If you say that, you fail.

3. What is Load Balancer in AWS & differences?

Load Balancer: Distributes traffic across multiple targets for availability and scalability.

Types:

ALB (Application LB)

Layer 7 (HTTP/HTTPS)

Path & host-based routing

Used with microservices, Kubernetes (Ingress)

NLB (Network LB)

Layer 4 (TCP/UDP)

Ultra-low latency, static IP

Used for high-performance workloads

CLB (Classic)

Legacy, avoid unless forced

Interview tip:
If you say “ALB is for web apps, NLB for performance”, you’re safe.

4. AWS keys/passwords leaked — what action would you take?

Correct incident response order:

Immediately deactivate the compromised keys

Rotate keys and passwords

Check CloudTrail for suspicious activity

Identify blast radius (EC2, S3, IAM changes)

Apply least-privilege IAM policies

Enable MFA

Post-incident review

❌ Saying “I will change password” only = amateur.

5. NAT Gateway vs Internet Gateway
Feature	IGW	NAT GW
Internet access	Inbound + Outbound	Outbound only
Used by	Public subnet	Private subnet
Security	Exposed	Safer
Needs public IP	Yes	Yes (for NAT itself)
6. Why NAT Gateway is in a public subnet?

Because:

NAT Gateway needs internet access

It must talk to IGW

Private subnets route traffic to NAT, not internet directly

If NAT were in private subnet → no internet → useless.

7. git pull vs git fetch

git fetch → Downloads changes without merging

git pull → git fetch + git merge

Professional workflow:

git fetch origin
git diff origin/main
git merge origin/main


❌ Blind git pull in production branches = red flag.

8. Use of git cherry-pick

Used to apply a specific commit from one branch to another.

Example:

git cherry-pick <commit-id>


Use case:

Hotfix from dev → prod

Avoid merging entire branch

❗ Overuse = messy history.

9. Kubernetes commands you have used

Group them like this (interviewers love structure):

Basic:

kubectl get pods/nodes/svc
kubectl describe pod <name>
kubectl logs <pod>


Deployment:

kubectl apply -f file.yaml
kubectl delete -f file.yaml
kubectl rollout status deployment/app
kubectl rollout undo deployment/app


Debugging:

kubectl exec -it pod -- bash
kubectl get events

10. Why pods fail to start on a node?

Common reasons:

Insufficient CPU/memory

ImagePullBackOff

Node not ready

Taints & tolerations

CNI/network issue

Volume mount failure

Debug flow:

kubectl describe pod
kubectl describe node
kubectl get events

11. How do you troubleshoot ImagePullBackOff?

Steps:

kubectl describe pod

Check image name & tag

Check registry access

Verify imagePullSecrets

Test pulling image manually on node

12. Causes of ImagePullBackOff

Wrong image name/tag

Private registry auth missing

Registry down

Network/DNS issue

Rate limits (Docker Hub)

13. StatefulSet vs Deployment vs DaemonSet
Feature	Deployment	StatefulSet	DaemonSet
Identity	No	Yes	No
Use case	Stateless apps	Databases	Node agents
Volumes	Shared	Stable per pod	Optional
Scaling	Easy	Ordered	Per node
14. Do Deployments use volumes? Which volumes used?

Yes.

Common volumes:

emptyDir

configMap

secret

persistentVolumeClaim

Real-world:
Deployment + PVC for apps that need storage.

15. How is HPA set up & which component manages metrics?

Setup:

HPA uses CPU/memory/custom metrics

Requires Metrics Server

Flow:

Metrics Server → kube-apiserver → HPA → Deployment


Logs are NOT used by HPA.
If you say logs, you’re wrong.

16. Provisioner vs Provider (Terraform)

Provider → Talks to APIs (AWS, Azure)

Provisioner → Executes scripts (local-exec, remote-exec)

❗ Provisioners are last resort, not best practice.

17. How to remove Terraform drift?

Steps:

terraform plan

Identify drift

Either:

Update code

Or terraform apply to re-align

Best practice:

Avoid manual changes in cloud

Lock down permissions

18. What if Terraform state file is deleted?

Terraform loses tracking

Resources still exist

You risk duplicate creation or deletion

Recovery:

terraform import


Worst case: rebuild infra manually.

19. How did you manage Terraform state reliability?

Correct answer:

Remote backend (S3)

Versioning enabled

State locking via DynamoDB

Restricted access

❌ Local state file = junior mistake.

20. How team handles modules & how many used?

Good answer:

We used Terraform modules for reusable components like VPC, EC2, ALB, EKS, and IAM. Each module was versioned and stored in a central repository. In our project, we used around 5–8 modules to maintain consistency and reduce duplication.

Interviewers care about:

Reusability

Versioning

Clean structure
